General corrosion and stress
corrosion cracking induced by impurities in the reactor coolant can cause failures of the
function is to control corrosion is reviewed by the organization responsible for chemical
of the corrosion of ferritic low alloy steels and carbon steels in contact with the reactor
In particular, the propensity for cold cracks or reheat
cracks to form in areas under the bead and in heat-affected zones (HAZ)
cause underclad cracking of certain steels.
and on request it will review corrosion testing data.
susceptible to stress corrosion cracking than nonsensitized (solution heat
boundary piping is susceptible to oxygen-assisted stress corrosion cracking.
D. Austenitic stainless steel is subject to hot cracking (microfissuring) during
Because cracks formed in this manner are small and difficult to detect
cracking must be specified.
such as inhibitors) as it relates to corrosion control and compatibility with RCPB
susceptibility to underclad cracking should not be weld clad by
demonstrate that underclad cracking is not induced.
Laboratory stress corrosion tests and service experience provide the basis for
failure of the RCPB.
materials provides assurance that degradation and/or failure of the RCPB resulting from
of extreme degradation could cause gross failure of the RCPB resulting in substantial
This reduces the likelihood of degradation and/or failure of
The controls to avoid stress corrosion cracking in reactor coolant pressure boundary
system addresses protection against common mode failure of redundant systems.
to meet the single failure criterion, but it must do so in conjunction with the HPCS, HPCI,
Controller Malfunctions.”
Section 5.2.2, “Overpressure Protection Review Responsibilities.”
temperature overpressure protection systems / cold overpressure mitigation
material’s lower bound static crack initiation fracture toughness, K , must
functions include preventing a loss of reactor coolant through leakage or gross failure of
RCPB material failure and the subsequent effects on reactor core cooling and
resulting in fuel failure.
significant degradation or of gross failure of the RCPB that could cause a loss of reactor
failure of the RCPB and the subsequent loss of core cooling and fission product
The stress intensity at the crack tip due to thermal loadings
nonductile or rapidly propagating failure are in conformance with the fracture
Against Nonductile Failure,” of the ASME Boiling and Pressure Vessel Code.
and Crack Tip Temperatures for Generating P-T Curves per ASME Section XI -
instrumentation, vent controls, and power source to establish that a single failure will not
