NUREG-0800
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
STANDARD REVIEW PLAN
5.2.4 REACTOR COOLANT PRESSURE BOUNDARY INSERVICE INSPECTION AND
TESTING
REVIEW RESPONSIBILITIES
Primary - Organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary
Secondary - Organization responsible for component integrity issues related to reactor
vessels.

I. AREAS OF REVIEW
Components that are part of the reactor coolant pressure boundary (RCPB) must be designed
to permit periodic inspection and testing of important areas and features to assess their
structural and leaktight integrity.
The system
boundary, as defined in 10 CFR 50.2, includes all pressure vessels, piping, pumps, and
valves which are part of the reactor coolant system, or connected to the reactor coolant
system, up to and including:
A.
The reactor coolant system safety and relief valves.

The pressure-retaining Code Class 1 component leakage and
hydrostatic pressure test program is acceptable if the program is in accordance with the
requirements of Section XI, Article IWB-5000, “System Pressure Tests,” and the
technical specification requirements for operating limitations during heatup, cooldown,
and system hydrostatic pressure testing.
Meeting the
requirements of General Design Criterion 32 assures that an effective periodic
inspection program can be performed on the RCPB, so that aging effects or other
incipient degradation phenomena may be identified and preventive measures promptly
taken to preclude potential loss of reactor coolant or impairment of reactor core cooling.

The Technical Specification on operating limitations during heatup,
cooldown, and system pressure testing should be referenced.

“To ensure that no deleterious defects develop during service, selected welds
and weld heat-affected zones will be inspected prior to plant startup and
periodically throughout the life of the plant.
The design of the reactor coolant system
incorporates provisions for access for inservice inspection in accordance with
Section XI of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, (xx) Edition, including
Addenda through the (xx) Addenda.
Suitable equipment will be (has been)
developed and installed to facilitate the remote inspection of these areas of the
reactor coolant pressure boundary that are not readily accessible to inspection
personnel.
The conduct of periodic inspections and pressure
testing of pressure-retaining components of the reactor coolant pressure
boundary in accordance with the requirements in applicable subsections of
Section XI of the ASME Code provides reasonable assurance that evidence of
structural degradation or loss of leak-tight integrity occurring during service will
be detected in time to permit corrective action before the safety function of a
component is compromised.
Within 12 months after COL issuance, the licensee shall submit the NRC an
implementation schedule for the Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary Preservice
Inspection, Inservice Inspection and Inservice Testing Program listed in FSAR Table
[13.x].
Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 32, “Inspection of Reactor
Coolant Pressure Boundary.”
3.
4. NUREG-0313, “Technical Report on Material Selection and Processing Guidelines for
BWR Coolant Pressure Boundary Piping,” Revision 2, January 1988.

_
5.2.4-12 Revision 2 - March 2007 NUREG-0800
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
STANDARD REVIEW PLAN
5.2.3 REACTOR COOLANT PRESSURE BOUNDARY MATERIALS
REVIEW RESPONSIBILITIES
Primary - Organization responsible for review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary
Secondary - Organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to
reactor vessels
Organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to
steam generator tubes
Organization responsible for the review of chemical engineering issues
Organization responsible for the review of materials engineering issues related to
flaw evaluation and welding
I. AREAS OF REVIEW

The following areas relating to materials of the reactor coolant pressure boundary (RCPB)
other than the reactor pressure vessel - which is covered in Standard Review Plan (SRP)
Section 5.3.1, “Reactor Vessel Materials,” - are reviewed:
1. Material Specifications.
The specifications for pressure-retaining ferritic materials,
nonferrous metals and austenitic stainless steels, including weld materials, that are used
for each component (e.g., vessels, piping, pumps, and valves) of the reactor coolant
pressure boundary, are reviewed by the primary reviewer with support from the
secondary reviewers.

Compatibility of Materials with the Reactor Coolant.
General corrosion and stress
corrosion cracking induced by impurities in the reactor coolant can cause failures of the
reactor coolant pressure boundary.

The chemistry of the reactor coolant and the additives (such as inhibitors) whose
function is to control corrosion is reviewed by the organization responsible for chemical
engineering issues as part of its primary review responsibility for SRP Sections 5.4.8 and
9.3.4.

The organization responsible for chemical engineering issues also reviews the
compatibility of the materials of construction employed in the RCPB with the reactor
coolant, contaminants, or radiolytic products to which the system is exposed.
The extent
of the corrosion of ferritic low alloy steels and carbon steels in contact with the reactor
coolant is reviewed.

The use of
austenitic stainless steels in any condition in boiling water reactors (BWRs) requires
special attention because of the oxygen content of BWR coolant.
3. Fabrication and Processing of Ferritic Materials
A. The fracture toughness properties of ferritic materials used for pressure-retaining
components of the reactor coolant pressure boundary are reviewed.

Fracture toughness of the material is characterized by its reference temperature,
RT .
This temperature is the higher of the nil ductility temperature (NDT) from
NDT
the dropweight test or the temperature that is 33EC (60EF) below the temperature
at which Charpy V-notch impact test data are 68 J (50 ft-lbs) and 0.89 mm
(35 mils) lateral expansion.

In particular, the propensity for cold cracks or reheat
cracks to form in areas under the bead and in heat-affected zones (HAZ)
can be minimized by maintaining proper preheat temperatures of the
base metal concurrent with controls on other welding variables.
The
5.2.3-2 Revision 3 - March 2007minimum preheat temperature and the maximum interpass temperatures
are reviewed.

Welding processes
that generate excessive heating and promote base metal coarsening
cause underclad cracking of certain steels.
Austenitic stainless steels in a
variety of product forms (including several stabilized product forms) are used for
construction of pressure-retaining components in the reactor coolant pressure boundary.

5.2.3-3 Revision 3 - March 2007Item 4.C is reviewed by the organization responsible for chemical engineering issues
and on request it will review corrosion testing data.
A. Sensitization is caused by intergranular precipitation of chromium carbide in
austenitic stainless steels that are exposed to temperatures in the approximate
range of 430EC to 820EC (800EF to 1500EF).
Test data and service
experience demonstrate that sensitized stainless steel is significantly more
susceptible to stress corrosion cracking than nonsensitized (solution heat
treated) stainless steel.

The following areas are reviewed: requirements for solution heat treatment of
stainless steel; plans to avoid partial or severe sensitization during welding,
including information on welding methods, heat input, and interpass
temperatures; and a description of the material inspection program that will be
used to verify that unstabilized austenitic stainless steels are not susceptible in
service to intergranular attack.

Special provisions may apply to the use of austenitic stainless steel in BWR
piping because plant operating experience indicates that reactor coolant
boundary piping is susceptible to oxygen-assisted stress corrosion cracking.

Thermal insulation is often employed adjacent to, or in direct contact with,
stainless steel piping and components.
The contaminants present in the thermal
insulation may be leached by spilled or leaking liquids and deposited on the
stainless steel surfaces.
The controls on the use of nonmetallic thermal
insulation are reviewed.

D. Austenitic stainless steel is subject to hot cracking (microfissuring) during
welding if the weld metal composition or the welding procedure is not properly
controlled.
Because cracks formed in this manner are small and difficult to detect
by nondestructive testing methods, welding procedures, weld metal
5.2.3-4 Revision 3 - March 2007compositions, and delta ferrite percentages that minimize the possibility of hot
cracking must be specified.
Nondestructive
examination techniques applied to tubular products used for components of the
RCPB, or other safety-related ASME Class 1 systems that are designed for
pressure in excess of 1.896 MPa (275 psig) or temperatures in excess of 93EC
(200EF), must be capable of detecting unacceptable defects regardless of defect
shape, orientation, or location in the product.

F. Where cast austenitic stainless steel components are proposed for use in the
RCPB, the adequacy of material fracture toughness properties and welding
controls to resist thermal aging effects over the design life are reviewed.
The reactor coolant chemistry and associated chemistry controls (including additives
such as inhibitors) as it relates to corrosion control and compatibility with RCPB
materials, is reviewed under SRP Sections 5.4.8 and 9.3.4.

Compatibility of Materials with the Reactor Coolant.
The acceptance criteria for control of ferritic steel welding are based upon the
following regulatory guides and ASME Code provisions to satisfy the quality
standards requirements of GDC 1, GDC 30, and § 50.55a:
(1) The amount of specified preheat must be in accordance with the
requirements of the Code, Section III, Appendix D, Paragraph D-1210.

These requirements are supplemented by positions described in
Regulatory Guide 1.50, “Control of Preheat Temperature for Welding of
Low Alloy Steel.”

The supplemental acceptance criteria for control of preheat temperature
are as follows:
(a) According to the welding procedure qualification minimum preheat
and maximum interpass temperatures should be specified and the
welding procedure should be qualified at the minimum preheat
temperature.
For production welds, the preheat temperature
should be maintained until a post-weld heat treatment has been
performed.

(b) Production welding should be monitored to verify that the limits on
preheat and interpass temperatures are maintained.
According to these criteria, material known to have
susceptibility to underclad cracking should not be weld clad by
high-heat-input welding processes and should be qualified for use to
demonstrate that underclad cracking is not induced.

The acceptance criteria for testing, alloy
compositions, and heat treatment, to avoid sensitization in austenitic stainless
steels, are covered in Regulatory Guide 1.44 and additional criteria for BWRs are
specified in Attachment A to Generic Letter 88-01 based upon the technical
information provided in NUREG-0313, Revision 2.
Laboratory stress corrosion tests and service experience provide the basis for
the criterion that cold-worked austenitic stainless steels used in the reactor
coolant pressure boundary should have an upper limit on the yield strength of
620 MPa (90,000 psi).

The acceptance criteria for compatibility of austenitic stainless steel with thermal
insulation are based on Regulatory Guide 1.36, “Nonmetallic Thermal Insulation
for Austenitic Stainless Steel,” to satisfy GDC 14 and 31 relative to prevention of
failure of the RCPB.
The compatibility of austenitic stainless steel materials with
thermal insulation is dependent upon the type of insulation.
The thermal
insulation is acceptable if either reflective metal insulation is employed or a
nonmetallic insulation which meets the criteria of Regulatory Guide 1.36 is used.

GDC 30 requires that components which are part of
the reactor coolant pressure boundary be designed, fabricated, erected, and tested to
the highest quality standards practical.
The reactor coolant pressure boundary provides
a fission product barrier, a confined volume for the inventory of reactor coolant, and flow
paths to facilitate core cooling.
The
RCPB provides a fission product barrier, a confined volume for the inventory of reactor
coolant, and flow paths to facilitate core cooling.
Application of GDC 4 to the RCPB
materials provides assurance that degradation and/or failure of the RCPB resulting from
environmental service conditions that could cause substantial reduction in capability to
contain reactor coolant inventoryor to confine fission products, or cause interference with
core cooling are not likely to occur.

The RCPB provides a fission product barrier, a confined volume
for the inventory of reactor coolant, and flow paths to facilitate core cooling.
Application
of GDC 14 to the RCPB materials assures that they are selected, fabricated, installed,
and tested to provide a low probability of significant degradation and, which in the case
of extreme degradation could cause gross failure of the RCPB resulting in substantial
reduction in capability to contain reactor coolant inventory, reduction in capability to
confine fission products, or interference with core cooling.

The design is required to reflect consideration of
5.2.3-13 Revision 3 - March 2007service temperatures and other conditions of the boundary material under operating,
maintenance, testing, and postulated accident conditions and the uncertainties in
determining (1) material properties, (2) the effects of irradiation on material properties,
(3) residual, steady state and transient stresses, and (4) size of flaws.
The RCPB
provides a fission product barrier, a confined volume for the inventory of reactor coolant,
and flow paths to facilitate core cooling.
The probability of substantial reduction in capability to contain reactor coolant
inventory, reduction in capability to confine fission products, and interference with core
cooling is thereby minimized.

The
RCPB provides a fission product barrier, a confined volume for the inventory of reactor
coolant, and flow paths to facilitate core cooling.
This reduces the likelihood of degradation and/or failure of
the RCPB that could cause substantial reduction in capability to contain reactor coolant
inventory or to confine fission products, or cause interference with core cooling.

If use of Alloy 600 materials is proposed, the reviewer verifies that an
acceptable technical basis is either identified (based upon demonstrated satisfactory use
in similar applications) or presented by the applicant to support use of the material under
the expected environmental conditions (e.g., exposure to the reactor coolant).
Where cast austenitic stainless steels are proposed for use in the RCPB, the reviewer
verifies that the material specifications ensure adequate fracture toughness over the
design life to support use of the material under the expected environmental conditions
(e.g., exposure to the reactor coolant operating temperatures).

2. Compatibility of Materials with the Reactor Coolant.
At the construction permit stage of review:
(1) A list of the materials of construction of the components of the reactor
coolant pressure boundary that are exposed to the reactor coolant,
including a description of material compatibility with the coolant,
contaminants, and radiolytic products to which the materials may be
exposed in service.

(2) A list of the materials of construction of the RCPB, and a description of
material compatibility with external insulation and with the environment in
the event of reactor coolant leakage.

B. The control of welding in ferritic steels is reviewed as described below:
(1) The information submitted by the applicant regarding the control of
preheat temperatures for welding low alloy steel is reviewed for
conformance with the acceptance criteria stated in Subsection II.3.B.(1) of
this SRP section.

The information submitted by the applicant in the following areas is reviewed for
conformance with the acceptance criteria stated in Subsection II.4.A of this SRP
section regarding:
(1) The desirable stage in the sequence of processing for solution heat
treatment, including the rates of cooling and the quenching media.

5.2.3-17 Revision 3 - March 2007Information is also checked to assure that precautions have been taken to require
removal of all cleaning solutions, processing compounds, degreasing agents, and
any other foreign material from the surfaces of the component at any stage of
processing prior to any elevated temperature treatment and prior to hydrotests.

However, because electroslag-welded austenitic stainless
steels have very high impact resistance, the checks are: (1) a macroetch test is
used to provide assurance that the solidification pattern is in accordance with the
requirement of the acceptance criteria shown in Subsection II.4.D of this SRP
section, and (2) wrought stainless steel parts are solution heat treated after
welding.

F. Cast austenitic stainless steel is susceptible to thermal aging at reactor coolant
temperatures.
Where cast material is used, the range of temperatures to
which the material will be exposed and the ferrite content of the material receive
particular review emphasis.
In sum, the materials used for construction of components of the reactor coolant
pressure boundary (RCPB) have been identified by specification and found to be in
conformance with the requirements of Section III of the ASME Code, and
[for BWRs
only] in conformance with the staff positions of Generic Letter 88-01, “NRC Position on
IGSCC in BWR Austenitic Stainless Steel Piping,” which are based upon the technical
information and/or recommendations provided in NUREG-0313, Revision 2, “Technical
Report on Material Selection and Processing Guidelines for BWR Coolant Pressure
Boundary Piping.”
The materials of construction of the RCPB exposed to the reactor coolant have been
identified and all of the materials are compatible with the primary coolant water, which is
chemically controlled in accordance with appropriate technical specifications.
The cast austenitic stainless steels and nickel-
chromium-iron alloys to be used as RCPB materials have also been demonstrated to be
compatible with reactor coolant under the anticipated environmental conditions of RCPB
service.
Accordingly, all RCPB materials are compatible with the environmental
conditions associated with normal operation, maintenance, testing, and postulated
accidents, as required by GDC 4.
5.2.3-20 Revision 3 - March 2007The materials of construction for the RCPB are compatible with the thermal insulation
used in these areas and are in conformance with the recommendations of Regulatory
Guide 1.36, “Nonmetallic Thermal Insulation for Austenitic Stainless Steels.”
The fracture toughness tests required by the ASME Code, augmented by Appendix G to
10 CFR Part 50, provide reasonable assurance that adequate safety margins against
nonductile behavior or rapidly propagating fracture can be established for all pressure
retaining components of the reactor coolant pressure boundary.
The controls imposed on welding preheat temperatures for welding ferritic steels are in
conformance with the recommendations of Regulatory Guide 1.50, “Control of Preheat
Temperature for Welding Low Alloy Steel.”
The controls to avoid stress corrosion cracking in reactor coolant pressure boundary
components constructed of austenitic stainless steels limit yield strength of cold-worked
austenitic stainless steels to 620 MPa (90,000 psi) maximum and conform to the
recommendations of Regulatory Guides 1.44, “Control of the Use of Sensitized Stainless
Steel,” and [for BWRs only] the positions of Generic Letter 88-01 or recommendations
contained in NUREG-0313, Revision 2, and Regulatory Guide 1.37, “Quality Assurance
Requirements for Cleaning of Fluid Systems and Associated Components of Water Cooled
Nuclear Power Plants.”
The fabrication controls for cast austenitic stainless steel components, in conjunction with
acceptable base material and weld metal specifications, provide for welded joint
inspectability and adequate fracture toughness to resist thermal aging for the design life.

Part 50, Appendix A, Criterion 14, “Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary.”
5. 10
Part 50, Appendix A, Criterion 30, “Quality of Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary.”
6. 10
Part 50, Appendix A, Criterion 31, “Fracture Prevention of Reactor Coolant
Pressure Boundary.”

Regulatory Guide 1.36, “Nonmetallic Thermal Insulation for Austenitic Stainless Steel.”
12.
Regulatory Guide 1.50, “Control of Preheat Temperature for Welding of Low-Alloy Steel.”
16.
18. NUREG-0313; Revision 2; “Technical Report on Material Selection and Processing
Guidelines for BWR Coolant Pressure Boundary Piping”; Hazelton, W.S., Koo, W.H.;
Division of Engineering and Systems Technology; January, 1988.
(Revision 0 of this
document replaced Branch Technical Position MTEB 5-7, “Material Selection and
Processing Guidelines for BWR Coolant Pressure Boundary Piping,” which was a part of
Revision 1 of this SRP section)
19.
20. NUREG/CR-4513 (ANL-90/42), “Estimation of Fracture Toughness of Cast Stainless Steels
During Thermal Aging in LWR Systems,” Chopra, O. K., prepared by Argonne National
Laboratory for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, June 1991.

5.2.3-26 Revision 3 - March 2007 NUREG-0800
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
STANDARD REVIEW PLAN
5.4.6 REACTOR CORE ISOLATION COOLING SYSTEM (BWR)
REVIEW RESPONSIBILITIES
Primary - Organization responsible for the review of reactor thermal hydraulic systems in
boiling-water reactors
Secondary - None
I. AREAS OF REVIEW

The reactor core isolation cooling (RCIC) system in a boiling-water reactor (BWR) is a safety
system that serves as a standby source of cooling water to provide a limited decay heat removal
capability whenever the main feedwater system is isolated from the reactor vessel.
For each of these events, the high-pressure part of the emergency core cooling
system (ECCS) provides a backup function to the RCIC system.
In addition, the
RCIC system may provide the decay heat removal necessary for coping with a station blackout
(SBO).
The review of the degree of separation of the RCIC system from the high-pressure core
spray (HPCS) system, the high-pressure coolant injection (HPCI) system, or the HPCF
system addresses protection against common mode failure of redundant systems.

The process flow diagram review confirms that the RCIC system design parameters are
consistent with expected pressures, temperatures, and flow rates.

As part of its primary review responsibility for SRP Section 3.12, the Reactor Systems
organization reviews the design of the RCIC system for evolutionary light-water reactor
designs to verify, to the extent practical, that the low-pressure portions of the RCIC that
interface with the reactor coolant system (RCS) will withstand full RCS pressure.
Also, the
containment heat removal capability and the suppression pool suction strainers are
reviewed under SRP Section 6.2.2.
9.
The RCIC pump room cooling is reviewed under Section 9.4.5.

GDC 33, which requires, in part, that a system shall be provided to supply reactor
coolant makeup for protection against small breaks in the reactor coolant pressure
boundary so that specified acceptable fuel design limits are not exceeded.

GDC 34, which requires a system to remove fission product decay heat and other
residual heat from the reactor core at a rate such that specified acceptable fuel design
limits and the design conditions of the reactor coolant pressure boundary are not
exceeded.

The general objective of the review is to determine that the RCIC system-in conjunction
with the HPCS (or HPCI) system, the safety and relief valves (SRVs), and the
suppression pool cooling mode of the residual heat removal (RHR) system-meets the
requirements of GDC 34 by providing the capability for decay heat removal to enable
complete shutdown of the reactor under conditions requiring its use.
The system must
maintain the reactor water inventory above the top of the active fuel until the reactor is
sufficiently depressurized to permit operation of the low-pressure cooling systems.
The
RCIC system-in conjunction with the HPCS (or HPCI) system, SRVs, and suppression
pool cooling mode of the RHR system-must be capable of removing fission product
decay heat and other residual heat from the reactor core following shutdown thus
precluding fuel damage or reactor coolant pressure boundary overpressurization.

Because the RCIC system, in conjunction with the HPCS (or HPCI) system, provides
makeup inventory in some modes of RHR, these systems should jointly meet the
guidelines of Branch Technical Position (BTP) 5-4, “Design Requirements of the
Residual Heat Removal System.”

The RCIC system also supplies reactor coolant makeup for small leaks.
Historically, credit has been taken for the RCIC system capability to mitigate the
consequences of certain abnormal events; however, because the cooling function is
redundant to the HPCI, HPCS, or HPCF system, the RCIC system itself is not required
to meet the single failure criterion, but it must do so in conjunction with the HPCS, HPCI,
or HPCF system.
The RCIC system should meet the following task action plan item recommendations of
NUREG-0737 and NUREG-0718:
A. Section II.K.1.22 with regard to actions, both automatic and manual, necessary
for proper functioning of the auxiliary heat removal systems that are used when
the main feedwater system is not operable.
E. Section II.K.3.24 with regard to space cooling to ensure reliable long-term
operation of the RCIC system following a complete loss of offsite power to the
plant for at least 2 hours.
The RCIC system - in conjunction with the
HPCS (or HPCI) system, the SRVs, and the suppression pool cooling mode of the RHR
system - provides the cooling water necessary for decay heat removal, but the dynamic
effects of water hammer could degrade system effectiveness.
The RCIC system - in
conjunction with the HPCS (or HPCI) system, the SRVs, and the suppression pool
cooling mode of the RHR system - provides the essential cooling water necessary for
decay heat removal.
The RCIC system provides a standby source of
cooling water and limited decay heat removal capability whenever the main feedwater
system is isolated from the reactor vessel.
GDC 33 specifies requirements for a system to supply reactor coolant makeup for
protection against small breaks in the reactor coolant pressure boundary and in the
event that either onsite or offsite ac power is unavailable.
The RCIC system is designed
as a high-pressure reactor coolant makeup system with flow rates sufficient to meet the
criteria for small breaks in the reactor coolant pressure boundary without ac power.

Compliance with GDC 33 ensures that specified acceptable fuel design limits are not
exceeded because of reactor coolant pressure boundary leakage or the rupture of small
piping or other small components that are part of the boundary.

GDC 34 requires a system to transfer fission product decay heat and other residual heat
from the reactor core at a rate such that specified acceptable fuel design limits and the
design conditions of the reactor coolant pressure boundary are not exceeded.
The
RCIC system provides the capability for decay heat removal.
Compliance with GDC 34
precludes fuel damage or reactor coolant pressure boundary overpressurization in the
event of anticipated operational occurrences that would adversely affect the functions of
systems that provide normal heat removal from the reactor core.

7. 10 CFR 50.63 imposes explicit requirements on LWRs regarding the plant’s ability to
withstand for a specified duration and recover from an SBO. 10 CFR 50.63(b), in
particular, requires that the reactor core and associated coolant, control and protection
systems must provide sufficient capacity and capability to ensure that the core is cooled
and appropriate containment integrity is maintained in the event of an SBO for the
specified duration.
The RCIC system provides decay heat removal from the reactor
core.
Its design capability to operate regardless of ac power source availability enables
performance of the decay heat removal function to support the plant in coping with an
SBO.
Using the RCIC operating requirements specified in SAR Section 5.4.6 and Chapter 15,
the reviewer confirms that the RCIC system can maintain coolant inventory in the reactor
vessel to keep the core covered and ensure cladding integrity.
The reviewer verifies that the decay heat
loads used in the RCIC analyses are applicable, consistent with SRP Section 4.2, and
suitably conservative.

The reviewer checks the automatic and manual actions necessary for proper functioning
of the RCIC system (in conjunction with the HPCS or HPCI system, the SRVs, and the
suppression pool cooling mode of RHR) for completeness and practicality when used for
RHR, per the requirements of item II.K.1.22 of NUREG-0737.

The reviewer examines the RCIC in conjunction with the HPCS or HPCI, the SRVs, and
the suppression pool cooling mode of the RHR system for conformance to the
recommendations of BTP 5-4.
18.
The reviewer checks the RCIC pump minimum flow design capacity and minimum flow
testing to verify that the flow rate meets the pump manufacturer’s recommendations to
prevent pump damage and overheating.

The staff concludes that the reactor core isolation cooling system design is acceptable and
meets the requirements of GDC 4, 5, 29, 33, 34, 54 and 10 CFR 50.63.
The RCIC system and HPCS (or HPCI) system, in conjunction with the SRVs and the
suppression pool cooling mode of the RHR system, have removed core decay heat following
feedwater system isolation and reactor shutdown so that sufficient coolant inventory is
maintained in the reactor vessel to keep the core covered and ensure cladding integrity.
6. 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 33, “Reactor Coolant Makeup.”
7. 10
Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 34, “Residual Heat Removal.”
8. 10
Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 55, “Reactor Coolant Pressure
Boundary Penetrating Containment”
10. 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 56, “Primary Containment
Isolation”
11.
Branch Technical Position 5-4, “Design Requirements of the Residual Heat Removal
System.”
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT STATEMENT

5.4.6-15 Revision 2 - March 2007 NUREG-0800
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
STANDARD REVIEW PLAN
5.4 REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM COMPONENT AND SUBSYSTEM DESIGN
REVIEW RESPONSIBILITIES

The organization responsible for review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems in pressurized-
water reactors (PWRs) or the organization responsible for review of reactor thermal-hydraulic
systems in boiling-water reactors (BWRs) has overall responsibility for the reviews performed
under this standard review plan (SRP).
Primary and Secondary organizations responsible for
the review of various components and subsystems associated with the reactor coolant system
(RCS) are shown under Areas of Review below.
This is normally called the reactor coolant pressure
boundary, as defined in Title 10, Section 50.2(v), of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Principal
components or subsystems might include the following:
• reactor coolant pumps (RCPs) /
Electronic copies of this section are available through the NRC's public Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/nuregs/staff/sr0800/, or in the NRC's Agencywide Documents Access and
Management System (ADAMS), at http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/adams.html, under Accession # ML070610167.• pressurizer
• reactor core isolation cooling (RCIC) system
[ESBWR])
• residual heat removal (RHR) system / passive residual heat removal system (Advanced
Light-water Reactor
[ALWR]) / shutdown cooling mode of the reactor water cleanup system

[BWR] / reactor water cleanup/shutdown cooling
system [ESBWR]
• RCS pressure relief devices / reactor coolant depressurization systems
• RCS component supports
• pressurizer relief discharge system
• RCS high-point vents
• main steam line, feedwater, and auxiliary feedwater piping
As appropriate to the specific reactor type and design, certain SRP subsections may, or may
not, apply, and additional SRP subsections might be necessary to address other components
and subsystems (e.g., core makeup tanks, passive residual heat removal heat exchangers,
isolation condenser systems, gravity-driven cooling systems, passive containment cooling
systems, etc.).

Reactor Coolant Pumps or Circulation Pumps
B. The organization responsible for the review of cooling water systems (primary
reviewer), and the organization responsible for the review of component
performance and testing (secondary reviewer), review the RCP bearing and seal
cooling water systems under SRP Sections 9.2.2, “Reactor Auxiliary Cooling
Water Systems.”
C. Organization responsible for the review of plant design for protection of
structures, systems, and components from internal and external hazards reviews
the potential for RCP and motor missiles under SRP Section 3.5.1.2, “Internally
Generated Missiles (Inside Containment).”

I. The organization responsible for review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), the organization
responsible for review of component integrity issues related to reactor vessels
(secondary reviewer), the organization responsible for review of component
integrity issues related to steam generator tubes (secondary reviewer), the
organization responsible for review of chemical engineering issues (secondary
reviewer), and the organization responsible for the review of materials
engineering issues related to flaw evaluation and welding (secondary reviewer),
assess RCP materials under SRP Section 5.2.3, “Reactor Coolant Pressure
Boundary Materials.”

J. The organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related
to reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to reactor
vessels (secondary reviewer), evaluate periodic inspection and testing of RCPs
to assess their structural and leaktight integrity.
These evaluations are
performed under SRP Section 5.2.4, “Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary
Inservice Inspection and Testing.”

The organization responsible for review of transient and accident analysis for
PWRs/BWRs reviews expected transients under SRP Sections 15.3.1-15.3.2,
“Loss of Forced Reactor Coolant Flow Including Trip of Pump Motor and Flow
Controller Malfunctions.”

N. The organization responsible for the review of transient and accident analysis for
PWRs/BWRs evaluates RCP rotor seizure or shaft break under SRP Sections
15.3.3 - 15.3.4, “Reactor Coolant Pump Rotor Seizure and Reactor Coolant
Pump Shaft Break.”

C. The organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related
to reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for component integrity issues related to reactor vessels (secondary
reviewer), assess the inservice inspection of the steam generator shells under
SRP Section 5.2.4.

D. The organization responsible for the review of transient and accident analyses
for PWRs/BWRs reviews the steam generator configuration and process design
parameters and the response to various anticipated operational occurrences
under SRP Sections 15.1.1 - 15.1.4, “Decrease in Feedwater Temperature,
Increase in Feedwater Flow, Increase in Steam Flow, and Inadvertent Opening
of a Steam Generator Relief or Safety Valve,” and various other SRP Sections of
Chapter 15.

Reactor Coolant System Piping and Valves
A. The organization responsible for review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems in
PWRs or BWRs reviews the piping and instrumentation diagrams, process flow
features, and equipment arrangements of RCS piping and valves.

C. The organization responsible for review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), the organization
responsible for review of component integrity issues related to reactor vessels
(secondary reviewer), and the organization responsible for review of chemical
engineering issues (secondary reviewer), assess reactor coolant piping
materials, including valves, under SRP Section 5.2.3.

D. The organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related
to reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to reactor
vessels (secondary reviewer), evaluate periodic inspection and testing of ASME
Code Class 1 RCS piping and valves (other than steam generator tubes) to
assess their structural and leaktight integrity.
E. The organization responsible for the review of reactor coolant pressure boundary
leakage detection reviews design features, analytical techniques, and procedural
measures associated with reactor coolant pressure boundary leakage detection
systems under SRP Section 5.2.5, “Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary
Leakage Detection.”

F. The organization responsible for the review of thermal-hydraulic systems in
BWRs/PWRs assesses the functional aspects of valves within, and connected
to, the reactor coolant pressure boundary under SRP Sections 5.4.6, “Reactor
Core Isolation Cooling System,” and 5.4.7, “Residual Heat Removal (RHR)
System.”
5.4-5 Revision 2 - March 2007G.
The organization responsible for the review of the BWR and PWR emergency
core cooling system (primary reviewer), and the organizations responsible for the
review of other systems and technical areas related to the BWR and PWR
emergency core cooling systems, assess the functional aspects of valves within,
and connected to, the reactor coolant pressure boundary under SRP Section 6.3,
“Emergency Core Cooling System.”

K. The organization responsible for review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for the review of materials engineering issues related to flaw
evaluation and welding (secondary reviewer), assess materials of fabrication for
RCS valves under SRP Section 10.3.6, “Steam and Feedwater System
Materials.”

The organization responsible for review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems in
BWRs and PWRs reviews the configuration and process design parameters of
the pressurizer, including related safety and relief valve capacities, under SRP
Section 5.2.2, “Overpressure Protection Review Responsibilities.”

D. The organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related
to reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to reactor
vessels (secondary reviewer), evaluate periodic inservice inspection and testing
of pressurizers to assess their structural and leaktight integrity.
E. The organization responsible for review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), the organization
responsible for review of component integrity issues related to reactor vessels
(secondary reviewer), and the organization responsible for review of chemical
engineering issues (secondary reviewer), assess pressurizer materials under
SRP Section 5.2.3.
6.
Reactor Core Isolation Cooling System (BWR) /
The organization responsible for the review of thermal-hydraulic systems in
BWRs assesses the reactor core isolation cooling system / isolation condenser
system under SRP Section 5.4.6.

The organization responsible for the review of the BWR and PWR emergency
core cooling system (primary reviewer), and the organization responsible for the
review of other systems and technical areas related to the BWR and PWR
emergency core cooling systems (secondary reviewer), evaluate the ESBWR
isolation condenser system under SRP Section 6.3, since this system is part of
the emergency core cooling system.

Residual Heat Removal System / Passive Residual Heat Removal System [ALWR] /
Shutdown Cooling Mode of the Reactor Water Cleanup System
[ESBWR]
The organization responsible for review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems in PWRs
and BWRs reviews the residual heat removal system under SRP Section 5.4.7.

[BWR] / Reactor Water Cleanup/Shutdown Cooling
System [ESBWR]
A.
Reactor Coolant System Pressure Relief Devices / Reactor Coolant Depressurization
Systems
A.
The organization responsible for review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems in
BWRs reviews setpoints and capacities of RCS safety and relief valves, and low-
temperature overpressure protection systems / cold overpressure mitigation
systems under SRP Section 5.2.2.

The organization responsible for mechanical engineering reviews evaluates the
structural integrity and methods of analysis of RCS pressure relief devices /
reactor coolant depressurization systems under SRP Sections 3.9.1, 3.9.2, and
3.9.3.

C. The organization responsible for the review of component performance and
testing reviews the functional design and qualification provisions and IST
programs for RCS pressure relief devices / reactor coolant depressurization
systems typically designated as Class 1, 2, or 3 under Section III of the ASME
Code under SRP Section 3.9.6.

The organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related
to reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to reactor
vessels (secondary reviewer), evaluate the inservice inspection of ASME Code
Class 1 RCS pressure relief devices / reactor coolant depressurization systems
to assess their structural and leaktight integrity.
G. The organization responsible for review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), the organization
responsible for review of component integrity issues related to reactor vessels
(secondary reviewer), and the organization responsible for review of chemical
engineering issues (secondary reviewer), assess RCS pressure relief device /
reactor coolant depressurization system materials under SRP Section 5.2.3.

H. The organization responsible for review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for the review of materials engineering issues related to flaw
evaluation and welding (secondary reviewer), assess the materials of fabrication
for RCS pressure relief devices / reactor coolant depressurization systems under
SRP Section 10.3.6.
The organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related
to reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to reactor
vessels (secondary reviewer), evaluate the inservice inspection program for
ASME Code Class 1 RCS pressure relief devices / reactor coolant
depressurization systems to assess their structural and leaktight integrity.
Reactor Coolant System Component Supports
A.
Pressurizer Relief Discharge System
The organization responsible for the review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems in
PWRs reviews the pressurizer relief tank (or one or more components and/or systems
that perform functions similar to those of the pressurizer relief tank system) under SRP
Section 5.4.11, “Pressurizer Relief Tank.
12.
RCS High-Point Vents
The organization responsible for the review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems in
PWRs and BWRs reviews the RCS high-point vents under SRP 5.4.12, “Reactor
Coolant System High
Main Steam Line, Feedwater, and Auxiliary Feedwater Piping
A. Organization responsible for the review of power conversion systems reviews the
functional and related requirements for the main steam line piping under SRP
Section 10.3, “Main Steam Supply System.”
B. Organization responsible for the review of power conversion systems reviews the
functional and related requirements for feedwater under SRP Section 10.4.7,
“Condensate and Feedwater System.”
C. Organization responsible for the review of cooling water systems reviews the
functional and related requirements for auxiliary feedwater under SRP Section
10.4.9, “Auxiliary Feedwater System (PWR).”

E. The organization responsible for review of component integrity issues related to
reactor coolant pressure boundary (primary reviewer), and the organization
responsible for the review of materials engineering issues related to flaw
evaluation and welding (secondary reviewer), assess the materials of fabrication
for main steam line, feedwater, and auxiliary feedwater piping under SRP
Section 10.3.6.

5.4-13 Revision 2 - March 2007 NUREG-0800
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
STANDARD REVIEW PLAN
5.3.2 PRESSURE-TEMPERATURE LIMITS, UPPER-SHELF ENERGY, AND PRESSURIZED
THERMAL SHOCK
REVIEW RESPONSIBILITIES
Primary - Organization responsible for the review of component integrity issues related to
reactor vessels
Secondary - None
I. AREAS OF REVIEW

The staff will review the application with respect to the regulations concerning, (a)
pressure-temperature (P-T) limits on maintaining the reactor coolant pressure boundary
(RCPB), (b) reactor vessel beltline Charpy upper-shelf energy (USE), and (c) assessment of
potential pressurized thermal shock (PTS) (pressurized-water reactor (PWR) only).

Pressure-Temperature Limits/Upper-Shelf Energy/Pressurized Thermal Shock
A. Pressure-Temperature Limits.
C. Pressurized Thermal Shock.
The staff
will consider the reference temperature (RT ) calculations and screening criterion
PTS
and, if the RT value is projected to exceed the PTS screening criterion before the
PTS
expiration date of the license, any associated safety analyses performed to support
reactor operation.
1. Pressure-Temperature Limits
A. Applicable Regulations, Codes, and Basis Documents.
Appendix G specifically requires that P-T limits must be at least as conservative
as limits obtained by following Appendix G to Section XI of the ASME Code
during heatup, cooldown, and test conditions.
5.3.2-4 Revision 2 - March 2007B. Pressure-Temperature Requirements.
Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50 requires
that the pressure-temperature (P-T) limits defined in that Appendix be at least as
conservative as limits obtained by following the methods of analysis and the
margins of safety of Appendix G of Section XI of the ASME Code, as stated
below:
i. Pressure-Temperature Limits for Preservice Hydrostatic Tests
During preservice hydrostatic tests (if fuel is not in the vessel), a
material’s lower bound static crack initiation fracture toughness, K , must
Ic
be greater than the K caused by pressure stresses acting on a defined,
I
conservative hypothetical flaw, as shown in the following expression:

Pressure-Temperature Limits for Inservice Leak and Hydrostatic Tests
During performance of inservice leak and hydrostatic tests, a material’s
K must be greater than 1.5 times the K caused by pressure, as shown in
Ic I
the following expression:

Pressure-Temperature Limits for Heatup and Cooldown Operations
At all times during heatup and cooldown operations, a material’s K must
Ic
be greater than the sum of 2 times the K caused by pressure and the K
I I
caused by thermal gradients, as shown in the following expression:

K = 2K(pressure) + K(thermal)
Pressure-Temperature Limits for Core Critical Operation

At all times that the reactor core is critical (except for low-power physics
tests), the temperature must be higher than that required for inservice
hydrostatic testing.
In addition, the P-T relationship must provide at least
a 22 EC (40 EF) margin over that required for heatup and cooldown
operations.

Pressurized Thermal Shock
A. Applicable Regulations, Codes, and Basis Documents.
B. Pressurized Thermal Shock Requirements.
The RCPB’s primary safety
functions include preventing a loss of reactor coolant through leakage or gross failure of
RCPB piping or components, and acting as a containment barrier to the release of
fission products in the event of an accident resulting in fuel damage.
Compliance with GDC 1 and 10 CFR 50.55a provides assurance that the RCPB meets
the appropriate quality standards of the ASME Code, and thus that the probability of
RCPB material failure and the subsequent effects on reactor core cooling and
confinement are minimized.

The RCPB provides for the confinement of reactor coolant
and acts as a barrier to the release of fission products in the event of an accident
resulting in fuel failure.
Application of GDC 14 to the RCPB, with regard to the
P-T limits, provides assurance that the RCPB meets the material fracture toughness
requirements and will act in a nonbrittle manner, thereby providing a low probability of
significant degradation or of gross failure of the RCPB that could cause a loss of reactor
coolant inventory and a reduction in the capability to confine fission products.

The design must reflect consideration of service
temperatures and other conditions of the boundary material and the uncertainties in
determining material properties; the effects of irradiation on material properties; residual,
steady-state, and transient stresses; and the size of flaws.
The RCPB provides a fission
product barrier, confinement of reactor coolant, and flowpaths to facilitate core cooling.

The probability of substantial reduction in the capability to contain reactor
coolant inventory, reduction in the capability to confine fission products, and interference
with core cooling is thereby minimized.

Fracture
toughness properties of ferritic materials increase significantly above the point referred
to as the nil-ductility transition temperature.
This temperature is established for the
RCPB material in accordance with Section XI of the ASME Code, as supplemented by
the requirements of Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50.
6. 10 CFR 50.61 establishes fracture toughness requirements for protection against PTS
events, which involve transients in PWRs that cause severe overcooling in conjunction
with overpressurization.
The thermal stresses in combination with the pressure stresses
increase the potential for brittle fracture in the presence of an initiating flaw in material
with low toughness.
The PTS rule
provides calculational methods and acceptance criteria for determining the effect of
embrittlement on the reactor vessel materials and for establishing the material reference
temperature limits beyond which corrective actions and plant-specific safety analyses
must justify continued operation of the plant.
Establishing, monitoring, and maintaining
the structural integrity of the reactor vessel materials are essential in protecting against a
failure of the RCPB and the subsequent loss of core cooling and fission product
containment.
The plant technical specifications or
pressure-temperature limits report should show the P-T limits using real temperature.

Acceptability Determination Methods
A. Pressure-Temperature Limits.
The reviewer will also apply the
additional minimum temperature requirements specified in Appendix G to
10 CFR Part 50.

“Temperature,”
normally given on the horizontal axis, may be either the reactor coolant
system fluid temperature (most common) or the metal temperature of
the vessel.
The reviewer should also check to see whether the curves include
pressure and/or temperature measurement uncertainties have been
included in the curves.
Determine the reference temperature (RT ) at the 1/4 thickness (1/4 T)
NDT
and 3/4 T locations for each vessel beltline material.
For preservice
hydrostatic testing curves, this determination shall be based on the initial
material properties for each material determined in accordance with
ASME Code, Section III, NB-2331 or BTP 5-3.
5.3.2-9 Revision 2 - March 2007For all other curves (inservice leak/hydrostatic testing, heatup, cooldown,
core critical operation), a period of applicability should be specified,
usually in effective full-power years (EFPYs) of operation.
The stress intensity due to pressure (membrane) and
I applied
thermal gradient (bending) loads at the tip of the 1/4 T
defect postulated in Appendix G to Section XI of the ASME
Code.

i I thermal
where:

The stress intensity at the crack tip due to thermal loadings
I thermal
(which are only considered for heatup, cooldown, and core
critical operation curves).
K may be conservatively
I thermal
calculated from equations given in Appendix G to
Section XI of the ASME Code, which depend on
heatup/cooldown rate and the vessel thickness.
K
I thermal
may also be more accurately obtained from
ORNL/NRC/LTR-03/03 for a given heatup/cooldown rate
and the vessel thickness.

K is a function of a material’s RT value and
Ic NDT
temperature at the location of interest (i.e., either the 1/4 T or 3/4 T
location).

It should also be noted that the temperature to be applied in using
Figure 1 is the metal temperature at the tip of the postulated flaw from
Appendix G to Section XI of the ASME Code (i.e., at either the 1/4 T or
3/4 T location).
The metal temperature at throughwall locations will
depend on the reactor coolant system fluid temperature and the rate of
change of the reactor coolant system fluid temperature.
Throughwall
metal temperatures can be determined from methods given in
Appendix G to Section XI of the ASME Code or from ORNL/NRC/LTR-
03/03.
vi.
Based on the discussion above, it is recommended that the following
equation be solved to determine the allowable pressure associated with a
specified temperature along a P-T limit curve:

Ic I thermal m
Ic I
, SF, and M ) are dependent on other, more basic variables or
thermal m
conditions:
K —Depends on metal temperature and material RT
Ic NDT
K —Depends on heatup/cooldown rate and vessel wall thickness
I thermal
SF—Depends on the curve being evaluated and the assumed flaw
orientation
5.3.2-11 Revision 2 - March 2007M —Depends on the vessel wall thickness and the assumed flaw
m
orientation
vii.
The reviewer should verify that all minimum temperature requirements
specified in Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50 for the P-T limit curve being
verified have been met.
In addition to the ASME Code, Regulatory Guide 1.161 provides an
acceptable methodology for the performance of analyses intended to meet the
provisions for additional analysis specified in paragraph IV.A.1.a.
C. Pressurized Thermal Shock in Pressurized-Water Reactors.
Alternatively, the licensee can perform a thermal-annealing treatment of the
reactor vessel pursuant to 10 CFR 50.61(b)(7) to recover fracture toughness.
The pressure-temperature limits imposed on the reactor coolant system for all
operating and testing conditions to ensure adequate safety margins against
nonductile or rapidly propagating failure are in conformance with the fracture
toughness criteria of Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50 and Appendix G, “Protection
Against Nonductile Failure,” of the ASME Boiling and Pressure Vessel Code.

The applicant has adequately addressed the upper-shelf energy criteria in
accordance with Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50 and thermal shock events in
accordance with 10 CFR 50.61
REFERENCES
1. 10 CFR 52.47, “Contents of Applications.”
2. 10 CFR 50.55a, “Codes and Standards.”
3. 10 CFR 50.60, “Acceptance Criteria for Fracture Prevention Measures for Lightwater
Nuclear Power Reactors for Normal Operation.”
4. 10 CFR 50.61, “Fracture Toughness Requirements for Protection Against Pressurized
Thermal Shock Events.”
5. 10
Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 14, “Reactor Coolant Pressure
Boundary.”
7. 10
Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 31, “Fracture Prevention of
Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary.”
8. 10
Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 32, “Inspection of Reactor
Coolant Pressure Boundary.”
5.3.2-14 Revision 2 - March 20079.
ORNL/NRC/LTR-03/03, “Tabulation of Thermally-Induced Stress Intensity Factors (K )

IT
and Crack Tip Temperatures for Generating P-T Curves per ASME Section XI -
Appendix G.”
17.
Regulatory Guide 1.154, “Format and Content of Plant-Specific Pressurized Thermal
Shock Safety Analysis Reports for Pressurized Water Reactors.”

Ic NDT
Temperature Relative to RT , (T-RT ), Fahrenheit Degrees
NDT NDT
FIGURE 1
5.3.2-16 Revision 2 - March 2007 NUREG-0800
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
STANDARD REVIEW PLAN
5.2.5 REACTOR COOLANT PRESSURE BOUNDARY LEAKAGE DETECTION
REVIEW RESPONSIBILITIES
Primary - Organization responsible for the review of reactor coolant pressure boundary
leakage detection.

The reactor coolant pressure boundary (RCPB) leakage detection systems are designed to
detect and, to the extent practical, identify the source of reactor coolant leakage.
Whether the system can identify, to the extent practical, the location of the source of
reactor coolant leakage.

Means shall be
provided for detecting and, to the extent practical, identifying the location of the source
of reactor coolant leakage.

The RCPB leakage detection system detects leakage after an earthquake for
5.2.5-3 Revision 2 - March 2007an early indication of degradation so that corrective action can be taken before such
degradation becomes severe enough to result in a leak rate greater than the capability
of the makeup system to replenish the coolant loss.
The prompt
detection of, and response to, RCPB leakage after an earthquake reduces the
possibility of a severe loss-of-coolant accident.

GDC 30 requires that systems be provided for detecting and, to the extent practical,
identifying the location of the source of reactor coolant leakage.
Compliance with GDC 30 and the guidance in RG 1.45 ensure that
operators have an early indication of RCPB degradation, thus minimizing the likelihood
that an RCPB leak may go undetected and result in a severe loss-of-coolant accident.

The containment air coolers are
reviewed for whether leakage from "hot" systems flashing into water vapor is condensed
readily and whether the condensate flows directly to the sump.

Inter-system leak detection methods include radioactivity,
pressure, temperature, flow and pressure relief valve actuation indications, and the
water inventory balance method.
The reviewer determines whether
control room operators have a chart or graph that permits rapid conversion of count rate
into L/m (gpm), whether conversion procedures account for the isotope monitored and
the activity of the primary coolant, and whether the plant maintains a running record of
background leakage to factor its effect out from any sudden increases in leak indication,
which may be "unidentified" leakage and to accordingly initiate prompt action.
The RCPB leakage detection system reliably monitors reactor coolant leakage from
RCPB components by combinations of atmospheric particulate monitors, radio-gas
monitors, and level, pressure, humidity, and temperature indicators.

The systems for detecting leakage from RCPB components furnish reasonable
assurance that structural degradation, which may develop in pressure-retaining RCPB
components and result in coolant leakage during service, will be detected promptly and
that corrective actions will be made before such degradation becomes severe enough to
jeopardize system safety or before the leakage increases to a level beyond the
capability of the makeup system to replenish coolant loss.

The staff concludes that the RCPB leakage detection system design is acceptable and
meets GDC 2 with respect to withstanding the effects of natural phenomena without loss
of capability to perform its safety functions, and GDC 30 with respect to the detection
and identification of the location of sources of reactor coolant leakage.
"
2. 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 30, "Quality of Reactor Coolant
Pressure Boundary.
"
4. Regulatory Guide 1.45, “Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary Leakage Detection
Systems.”
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT STATEMENT
The information collections contained in the Standard Review Plan are covered by the requirements of 10 CFR Part 50 and
10 CFR Part 52, and were approved by the Office of Management and Budget, approval number 3150-0011 and 3150-0151.

5.2.5-7 Revision 2 - March 2007Table I. Systems and Components Connected to Reactor Coolant System and Needing
Inter-system Leakage Monitoring
I.
Residual Heat Removal System (Inlet and Discharge)
6.
Secondary Side of Reactor Coolant Pump Thermal Barriers
7.
Secondary Side of Residual or Decay Heat Removal Heat Exchangers
8.
Secondary Side of Letdown Line Heat Exchangers
9.
Secondary Side of Reactor Coolant Pump Seal Water Heat Exchangers
II.
In boiling-water reactors (BWRs):
1. Safety Injection Systems (High and Low Pressure Core Spray and Coolant Injection
Systems, High Pressure Core Flooder System)
2.
Residual Heat Removal System (Inlet and Discharge)
3.
Reactor Core Isolation Cooling System
4.
Steam Side of High Pressure Coolant Injection (BWR-4)
5.
Secondary Side of Reactor Water Cleanup System Heat Exchangers
6.
Secondary Side of Reactor Coolant Pump Integral Heat Exchangers
7.
Secondary Side of Residual Heat Removal Heat Exchangers
5.2.5-8 Revision 2 - March 2007 NUREG-0800
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
STANDARD REVIEW PLAN
5.4.12 REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM HIGH POINT VENTS
REVIEW RESPONSIBILITIES
Primary - Organization responsible for review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems in
Pressurized Water Reactors (PWRs) and Boiling Water Reactors (BWRs)
Secondary - None
I. AREAS OF REVIEW

All light-water nuclear power reactors are required to contain reactor coolant system (RCS)
high-point vents in accordance with 10 CFR 50.46a.
With the exception of high points in steam
generator tubes, RCS high-point vents must be provided at all RCS locations where
accumulation of noncondensible gases could inhibit natural circulation core cooling.
Supporting loss-of-coolant accident (LOCA) analyses for breaks in the vent line to
demonstrate compliance with 10 CFR 50.46 unless vent line flow area is restricted to
prevent the flow from exceeding the charging capability in the event of a vent line break.

ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA
Requirements
The objective of the review is to determine whether the vent system (1) is capable of removing
noncondensible gases from the primary coolant system with a minimal probability of inadvertent
or spurious actuation and (2) has been acceptably assessed with respect to causing a LOCA.

Acceptance criteria are based on meeting the relevant requirements of the following
Commission regulations:
1. 10 CFR 50.46a, as it relates to the provision of, and requirements related to, high-point
vents for the RCS, the reactor vessel head, and other systems required to maintain
adequate core cooling if the accumulation of noncondensible gases would cause the
loss of function of these systems.

50.46(b), as it relates to the long-term cooling of the core following any
calculated successful initial operation of the emergency core cooling system (ECCS) to
remove decay heat for an extended period of time.

3. 10 CFR 50.49, as it relates to environmental qualification of electrical equipment
necessary to operate the reactor coolant vent system.

10 CFR 50.55a and General Design Criteria (GDC) 1 and 30 found in Appendix A to
10 CFR Part 50, as they relate to the vent system components that are part of the
reactor coolant pressure boundary (RCPB) being designed, fabricated, erected, and
tested and maintained to high quality standards.

The reactor coolant vent design must ensure that use of these vents during and
following an accident does not aggravate the challenge to containment or the course of
the accident.

2. Vent capability should be provided on high points of the RCS (including the pressurizer
on PWRs and the hot legs on Babcock and Wilcox designs) to vent gases which may
inhibit core cooling.
For reactors with U-tube steam generators, procedures should be
developed to remove sufficient gas from the U-tubes to ensure continued core cooling,
since it is impractical to individually vent the thousands of U-tubes.
In general, vent
paths are not required for local high points at locations where gas accumulation would
not be expected to jeopardize core cooling such as a reactor coolant pump valve body.

The design should have provisions for testing the operability of the reactor coolant vent
system.
The reactor coolant vent system (i.e., vent valves, block valves, position indication
devices, cable terminations, and piping) should be seismically and environmentally
qualified in accordance with IEEE 344, as supplemented by Regulatory Guide 1.100 and
Regulatory Guide 1.92.
The reactor coolant vent system should be designed to withstand the dynamic loads that
will be encountered during operation from high RCS pressure to the approximate
atmospheric pressure at the vent system exhaust.
13.
The reactor coolant vent system should meet the quality assurance acceptance criteria
provided in SRP Chapter 17.

The technical rationale for application of these acceptance criteria to the areas of review
addressed by this SRP section is discussed in the following paragraphs:
1. 10 CFR 50.46a requires that light-water nuclear power reactors be designed with RCS
high-point vents to maintain adequate core cooling if the accumulation of
noncondensible gases would cause the loss of function of the core cooling systems.

Compliance with 10 CFR 50.46a assures that there is a
means to exhaust gases from the RCS that might otherwise inhibit long-term cooling
following an accident, thereby ensuring the establishment and maintenance of adequate
reactor core cooling.

CFR 50.46(b) establishes specific reactor core temperature, cladding oxidation,
hydrogen generation, and cooling requirements that are designed to protect the fuel and
fuel cladding.
The RCS vent system supports long-term core cooling following an
accident by exhausting gases from the primary system that could otherwise inhibit
natural circulation or pump operation.

3. 10 CFR 50.49 requires environmental qualification of safety-related electrical equipment
to ensure that such equipment operates satisfactorily in the most severe environment
(i.e., temperature, humidity, radiation, etc.) that it may encounter.
The RCS vent system fulfills two vital safety
functions in that it exhausts gases from the RCS to ensure the continuance of long-term
core cooling and also acts as a part of the RCPB.
Following GDC 14 will ensure that the integrity of the RCPB is preserved and that
adequate core cooling is maintained.

The electric power systems must
have adequate independence, redundancy, and testability and provide sufficient
capacity and capability to assure that fuel and RCPB design limits are not exceeded and
5.4.12-6 Revision 1 - March 2007that core cooling and containment integrity are maintained.
This will enable the vent
system to fulfill its safety function of venting gases from the RCS, thereby ensuring that
adequate core cooling is established and maintained.

The reactor coolant vents are remotely operable from the control room such that the
vent system can properly fulfill its safety function of venting primary system gases during
an accident.
Compliance with GDC 19 will provide assurance that control room
operability is preserved such that the RCS vents can be operated during an accident,
thereby ensuring that core cooling is maintained.

The organization responsible for the review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems
reviews the vent system description to determine that the vent paths are capable of
venting RCS high points.
At request of the reviewer of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems, the organization
responsible for the review of instrumentation and control systems reviews the
instrumentation, vent controls, and power source to establish that a single failure will not
prevent isolation of the vent system.

The reviewer of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems examines valve redundancy and
other methods to minimize inadvertent actuation.
The reviewer of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems examines the size of the vent line
and orifices to see if the smallest flow area is smaller than the LOCA definition.
The organization responsible for mechanical engineering reviews examines provisions
to test for operability of the reactor coolant vent system.
The organization responsible for mechanical engineering reviews, examines the reactor
coolant vent system (i.e., vent valves, block valves, position indication devices, cable
terminations, and piping) to assure that it is seismically qualified in accordance with
IEEE 344, as supplemented by Regulatory Guide 1.100, and Regulatory Guide 1.92.
11.
The organization responsible for environmental qualification review (i.e., vent valves,
block valves, position indication devices, and cable terminations) assures that the
reactor coolant vent system is environmentally qualified in accordance with
10 CFR 50.49.
12.
The organization responsible for review of reactor thermal-hydraulic systems evaluates
the procedures necessary to operate the vent system.
The organization responsible for mechanical engineering reviews the reactor coolant
vent system to assure it is designed to withstand the dynamic loads associated with
operation at RCS pressure with discharge to approximate atmospheric pressure.

The reviewer of the reactor coolant vent system determines that the applicable SRP
Chapter 17 subjects are acceptably addressed.

This conclusion is
based on the following:
The RCS high-point vents include components and piping to remotely relieve
noncondensible gases from the primary coolant system and vent the gases to
the containment atmosphere or to holdup tanks within containment.
REFERENCES
1. 10 CFR 50.34, “Contents of Applications; Technical Information.”
2. 10 CFR 50.44, “Standards for Combustible Gas Control System in Light-Water-Cooled
Power Reactors.”
3. 10 CFR 50.46, “Acceptance Criteria for Emergency Core Cooling Systems for Light
Water Nuclear Power Reactors.”
4. 10 CFR 50.46a, “Acceptance Criteria for Reactor Coolant Venting Systems.”
5. 10 CFR 50.49, “Environmental Qualification of Electric Equipment Important to Safety
for Nuclear Power Plants.”
6. 10 CFR 50.55a, “Codes and Standards.”
7. 10
Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 14, “Reactor Coolant Pressure
Boundary.”
9. 10
10 CFR Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 30, “Quality of Reactor Coolant
Pressure Boundary.”
12.
10 CFR Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 34, “Residual Heat Removal.”
13. 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix A, General Design Criterion 36, “Inspection of Emergency
Core Cooling System.”
14.
